README.md, before:

# Nextjs-Themes [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nextjs-themes.svg?colorB=green)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nextjs-themes) [![Downloads](https://img.jsdelivr.com/img.shields.io/npm/dt/nextjs-themes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nextjs-themes)

This project is inspired by next-themes. Next-themes is an awesome package, however, it requires wrapping everything in a provider. The provider has to be a client component as it uses hooks. And thus, it takes away all the benefits of Server Components.

`nextjs-themes` removes this limitation and enables you to unleash the full power of React 18 Server Components. In addition, more features are coming up soon... Stay tuned!

- ✅ Designed for excellence
- ✅ Unleash the full power of React18 Server components
- ✅ Works with all build systems/tools/frameworks for React18
- ✅ Perfect dark mode in 2 lines of code
- ✅ System setting with prefers-color-scheme
- ✅ Themed browser UI with color-scheme
- ✅ Support for Next.js 13 `appDir`
- ✅ Sync theme across tabs and windows
- ✅ Disable flashing when changing themes
- ✅ Force pages to specific themes
- ✅ Class or data attribute selector
- ✅ Manipulate theme via `useTheme` hook

Check out the [live example](https://nextjs-themes.vercel.app/).

## Install

```bash
$ pnpm add nextjs-themes
# or
$ npm install nextjs-themes
# or
$ yarn add nextjs-themes
```

## Want Lite Version?

```bash
$ pnpm add nextjs-themes-lite
# or
$ npm install nextjs-themes-lite
# or
$ yarn add nextjs-themes-lite
```

> You need Zustand as a peer-dependency

## Use

### With pages/

The best way is to add a [Custom `App`](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-app) to use by modifying `_app` as follows:

Adding dark mode support takes 2 lines of code:

```js
import { ThemeSwitcher } from "next-themes";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <ThemeSwitcher forcedTheme={Component.theme} />
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

⚡🎉Boom! Just a couple of lines and your dark mode is ready!

Check out examples for advanced usage.

### With app/

Update your `app/layout.jsx` to add `ThemeSwitcher` from `nextjs-themes`.

```js
// app/layout.jsx
import { ThemeSwitcher } from "next-themes";

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html>
      <head />
      <body>
        <ThemeSwitcher />
        {children}
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

Woohoo! You just added dark mode and you can also use Server Component! Isn't that awesome!

### HTML & CSS

That's it, your Next.js app fully supports dark mode, including System preference with `prefers-color-scheme`. The theme is also immediately synced between tabs. By default, next-themes modifies the `data-theme` attribute on the `html` element, which you can easily use to style your app:

```css
:root {
  /* Your default theme */
  --background: white;
  --foreground: black;
}

[data-theme="dark"] {
  --background: black;
  --foreground: white;
}
```

### useTheme

In case your components need to know the current theme and be able to change it. The `useTheme` hook provides theme information:

```js
import { useTheme } from "nextjs-themes";

const ThemeChanger = () => {
  /* you can also improve performance by using selectors
   * const [theme, setTheme] = useTheme(state => [state.theme, state.setTheme]);
   */
  const { theme, setTheme } = useTheme();

  return (
    <div>
      The current theme is: {theme}
      <button onClick={() => setTheme("light")}>Light Mode</button>
      <button onClick={() => setTheme("dark")}>Dark Mode</button>
    </div>
  );
};
```

## Force per page theme and color-scheme

### Next.js app router

```javascript
import { ForceTheme } from "nextjs-themes";

function MyPage() {
  return (
    <>
      <ForceTheme theme={"my-theme"} />
      ...
    </>
  );
}

export default MyPage;
```

### Next.js pages router

For pages router, you have 2 options. One is the same as the app router and the other option which is compatible with `next-themes` is to add `theme` to your page component as follows.

```javascript
function MyPage() {
  return <>...</>;
}

MyPage.theme = "my-theme";

export default MyPage;
```

In a similar way, you can also force color scheme.

Forcing color scheme will apply your defaultDark or defaultLight theme, configurable via hooks.

> Full docs coming soon!

## License

Licensed as MIT open source.

<hr />

<p align="center" style="text-align:center">with 💖 by <a href="https://mayank-chaudhari.vercel.app" target="_blank">Mayank Kumar Chaudhari</a></p>

Commit message:

fix action & add codecov badge

README.md, after:

# Nextjs-Themes [![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nextjs-themes.svg?colorB=green)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nextjs-themes) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mayank1513/nextjs-themes/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=SUTY0GHPHV)](https://codecov.io/gh/mayank1513/nextjs-themes) [![Downloads](https://img.jsdelivr.com/img.shields.io/npm/dt/nextjs-themes.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nextjs-themes)

This project is inspired by next-themes. Next-themes is an awesome package, however, it requires wrapping everything in a provider. The provider has to be a client component as it uses hooks. And thus, it takes away all the benefits of Server Components.

`nextjs-themes` removes this limitation and enables you to unleash the full power of React 18 Server Components. In addition, more features are coming up soon... Stay tuned!

- ✅ Designed for excellence
- ✅ Unleash the full power of React18 Server components
- ✅ Works with all build systems/tools/frameworks for React18
- ✅ Perfect dark mode in 2 lines of code
- ✅ System setting with prefers-color-scheme
- ✅ Themed browser UI with color-scheme
- ✅ Support for Next.js 13 `appDir`
- ✅ Sync theme across tabs and windows
- ✅ Disable flashing when changing themes
- ✅ Force pages to specific themes
- ✅ Class or data attribute selector
- ✅ Manipulate theme via `useTheme` hook

Check out the [live example](https://nextjs-themes.vercel.app/).

## Install

```bash
$ pnpm add nextjs-themes
# or
$ npm install nextjs-themes
# or
$ yarn add nextjs-themes
```

## Want Lite Version?

```bash
$ pnpm add nextjs-themes-lite
# or
$ npm install nextjs-themes-lite
# or
$ yarn add nextjs-themes-lite
```

> You need Zustand as a peer-dependency

## Use

### With pages/

The best way is to add a [Custom `App`](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-app) to use by modifying `_app` as follows:

Adding dark mode support takes 2 lines of code:

```js
import { ThemeSwitcher } from "next-themes";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <ThemeSwitcher forcedTheme={Component.theme} />
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

⚡🎉Boom! Just a couple of lines and your dark mode is ready!

Check out examples for advanced usage.

### With app/

Update your `app/layout.jsx` to add `ThemeSwitcher` from `nextjs-themes`.

```js
// app/layout.jsx
import { ThemeSwitcher } from "next-themes";

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html>
      <head />
      <body>
        <ThemeSwitcher />
        {children}
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

Woohoo! You just added dark mode and you can also use Server Component! Isn't that awesome!

### HTML & CSS

That's it, your Next.js app fully supports dark mode, including System preference with `prefers-color-scheme`. The theme is also immediately synced between tabs. By default, next-themes modifies the `data-theme` attribute on the `html` element, which you can easily use to style your app:

```css
:root {
  /* Your default theme */
  --background: white;
  --foreground: black;
}

[data-theme="dark"] {
  --background: black;
  --foreground: white;
}
```

### useTheme

In case your components need to know the current theme and be able to change it. The `useTheme` hook provides theme information:

```js
import { useTheme } from "nextjs-themes";

const ThemeChanger = () => {
  /* you can also improve performance by using selectors
   * const [theme, setTheme] = useTheme(state => [state.theme, state.setTheme]);
   */
  const { theme, setTheme } = useTheme();

  return (
    <div>
      The current theme is: {theme}
      <button onClick={() => setTheme("light")}>Light Mode</button>
      <button onClick={() => setTheme("dark")}>Dark Mode</button>
    </div>
  );
};
```

## Force per page theme and color-scheme

### Next.js app router

```javascript
import { ForceTheme } from "nextjs-themes";

function MyPage() {
  return (
    <>
      <ForceTheme theme={"my-theme"} />
      ...
    </>
  );
}

export default MyPage;
```

### Next.js pages router

For pages router, you have 2 options. One is the same as the app router and the other option which is compatible with `next-themes` is to add `theme` to your page component as follows.

```javascript
function MyPage() {
  return <>...</>;
}

MyPage.theme = "my-theme";

export default MyPage;
```

In a similar way, you can also force color scheme.

Forcing color scheme will apply your defaultDark or defaultLight theme, configurable via hooks.

> Full docs coming soon!

## License

Licensed as MIT open source.

> Note: This package uses cookies to sync theme with server components

<hr />

<p align="center" style="text-align:center">with 💖 by <a href="https://mayank-chaudhari.vercel.app" target="_blank">Mayank Kumar Chaudhari</a></p>
